README.md, before:

# Workshops for the Uno Platform [![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-23-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors)

The Uno Platform (Pronounced 'Oono' or 'Ouno') is a Universal Windows Platform Bridge that allows UWP-based code (C# and XAML) to run on iOS, Android, and WebAssembly. It provides the full definitions of the UWP Windows 10 October 2018 Update (17763), and the implementation of a growing number of parts of the UWP API, such as **Windows.UI.Xaml**, to enable UWP applications to run on these platforms.

Use the UWP tooling from Windows in [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/), such as [XAML Edit and Continue](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/2016/04/06/ui-development-made-easier-with-xaml-edit-continue/) and [C# Edit and Continue](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/debugger/how-to-use-edit-and-continue-csharp). Build your application as much as possible on Windows, then validate that your application runs on iOS, Android and WebAssembly.

## Workshops

- [Uno Bootcamp](uno-bootcamp): In this relaxed single day workshop, you'll be introduced to the development philosophy of Uno and build a new application from scratch that uses the philosophy. You’ll also learn from productivity tips and how Uno works under the hood.

## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people (and companies!)⁠ — [emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore -->
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://www.ghuntley.com/now"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/127353?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Geoffrey Huntley"/><br /><sub><b>Geoffrey Huntley</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=ghuntley" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=ghuntley" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#talk-ghuntley" title="Talks">📢</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=ghuntley" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/anaisbetts"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/1396?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Anaïs Betts"/><br /><sub><b>Anaïs Betts</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=anaisbetts" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://carl.debilly.net/"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/4174207?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Carl de Billy"/><br /><sub><b>Carl de Billy</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=carldebilly" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=carldebilly" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#talk-carldebilly" title="Talks">📢</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=carldebilly" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Guidemarcus"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/17101674?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Marc-Antoine Therrien"/><br /><sub><b>Marc-Antoine Therrien</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=Guidemarcus" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#design-Guidemarcus" title="Design">🎨</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://opensource.microsoft.com"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/6154722?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Microsoft"/><br /><sub><b>Microsoft</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=microsoft" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/agneszitte-nventive"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/16295702?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Agnes ZITTE"/><br /><sub><b>Agnes ZITTE</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=agneszitte-nventive" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=agneszitte-nventive" title="Code">💻</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://www.twitter.com/XAMLLlama"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/24302614?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Michael Hawker MSFT (XAML Llama)"/><br /><sub><b>Michael Hawker MSFT (XAML Llama)</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#review-michael-hawker" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=michael-hawker" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=michael-hawker" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://nicksnettravels.builttoroam.com"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/1614057?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Nick Randolph"/><br /><sub><b>Nick Randolph</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=nickrandolph" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://taylordevereaux.com"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/880207?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Taylor Devereaux"/><br /><sub><b>Taylor Devereaux</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=taylordevereaux" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://mrlacey.com/"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/189547?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Matt Lacey"/><br /><sub><b>Matt Lacey</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=mrlacey" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/kazo0"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/4793020?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Steve Bilogan"/><br /><sub><b>Steve Bilogan</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=kazo0" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/scottkuhl"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/4465616?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Scott Kuhl"/><br /><sub><b>Scott Kuhl</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=scottkuhl" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://www.13north.ca/"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/7881072?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Tom Walker"/><br /><sub><b>Tom Walker</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=TomWalkerCodes" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://Arieldelossantos.com"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/34275909?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Ariel De Los Santos"/><br /><sub><b>Ariel De Los Santos</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=Arieldelossantos" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/JuliaVigo8"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/11890609?v=4" width="100px;" alt="JuliaVigo8"/><br /><sub><b>JuliaVigo8</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=JuliaVigo8" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/jjcolumb"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/22223689?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Jose Columbie"/><br /><sub><b>Jose Columbie</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=jjcolumb" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Sushi21"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/35455125?v=4" width="100px;" alt="sushi21"/><br /><sub><b>sushi21</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=sushi21" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://medium.com/@hminaya/"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/586656?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Hector Minaya"/><br /><sub><b>Hector Minaya</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=hminaya" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://luizbon.com"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/292532?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Luiz Adilson da Silva Bon"/><br /><sub><b>Luiz Adilson da Silva Bon</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=luizbon" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/panwalas"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/39371808?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Swapnil Panwala"/><br /><sub><b>Swapnil Panwala</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=panwalas" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/TopperDEL"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/1833242?v=4" width="100px;" alt="TopperDEL"/><br /><sub><b>TopperDEL</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=TopperDEL" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Parikshit-Hooda"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/25405707?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Parikshit Hooda"/><br /><sub><b>Parikshit Hooda</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=Parikshit-Hooda" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/khyativalera"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/47522632?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Khyati Valera"/><br /><sub><b>Khyati Valera</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=khyativalera" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

## License 

These workshops are made available under the [Apache License, Version 2][license]. If you use this material to run a workshop, please share where it was used and [feedback by creating a new issue on GitHub][share-feedback]. If you see an opportunity to improve the courseware, please send in a pull-request.

<!-- in-line links -->
[uno-platform]: https://platform.uno/

[license]: ../LICENSE
[share-feedback]: https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/issues/new?labels=feedback%2C+untriaged&template=feedback.md

Commit message:

Badges Added and Fixed
Added badged. 

Suggestion:
Contributors Badge can be fixed and synced with Github for automatic updates by 
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/unoplatform/workshops.svg)](https://GitHub.com/unoplatform/workshops/graphs/contributors/)

But this will make the contributor count as 19 which is tracked by github so did not make this change. 

Added Stars and Fork Badge.

README.md, after:

# Workshops for the Uno Platform
[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-23-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors) [![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/unoplatform/workshops.svg?style=social&label=Fork&maxAge=2592000)](https://GitHub.com/unoplatform/workshops/network/) [![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/unoplatform/workshops.svg?style=social&label=Star&maxAge=2592000)](https://GitHub.com/unoplatform/workshops/stargazers/) 

The Uno Platform (Pronounced 'Oono' or 'Ouno') is a Universal Windows Platform Bridge that allows UWP-based code (C# and XAML) to run on iOS, Android, and WebAssembly. It provides the full definitions of the UWP Windows 10 October 2018 Update (17763), and the implementation of a growing number of parts of the UWP API, such as **Windows.UI.Xaml**, to enable UWP applications to run on these platforms.

Use the UWP tooling from Windows in [Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/), such as [XAML Edit and Continue](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/2016/04/06/ui-development-made-easier-with-xaml-edit-continue/) and [C# Edit and Continue](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/debugger/how-to-use-edit-and-continue-csharp). Build your application as much as possible on Windows, then validate that your application runs on iOS, Android and WebAssembly.

## Workshops

- [Uno Bootcamp](uno-bootcamp): In this relaxed single day workshop, you'll be introduced to the development philosophy of Uno and build a new application from scratch that uses the philosophy. You’ll also learn from productivity tips and how Uno works under the hood.

## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people (and companies!)⁠ — [emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore -->
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://www.ghuntley.com/now"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/127353?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Geoffrey Huntley"/><br /><sub><b>Geoffrey Huntley</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=ghuntley" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=ghuntley" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#talk-ghuntley" title="Talks">📢</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=ghuntley" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/anaisbetts"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/1396?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Anaïs Betts"/><br /><sub><b>Anaïs Betts</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=anaisbetts" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://carl.debilly.net/"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/4174207?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Carl de Billy"/><br /><sub><b>Carl de Billy</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=carldebilly" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=carldebilly" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#talk-carldebilly" title="Talks">📢</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=carldebilly" title="Tests">⚠️</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Guidemarcus"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/17101674?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Marc-Antoine Therrien"/><br /><sub><b>Marc-Antoine Therrien</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=Guidemarcus" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="#design-Guidemarcus" title="Design">🎨</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://opensource.microsoft.com"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/6154722?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Microsoft"/><br /><sub><b>Microsoft</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=microsoft" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/agneszitte-nventive"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/16295702?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Agnes ZITTE"/><br /><sub><b>Agnes ZITTE</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=agneszitte-nventive" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=agneszitte-nventive" title="Code">💻</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://www.twitter.com/XAMLLlama"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/24302614?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Michael Hawker MSFT (XAML Llama)"/><br /><sub><b>Michael Hawker MSFT (XAML Llama)</b></sub></a><br /><a href="#review-michael-hawker" title="Reviewed Pull Requests">👀</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=michael-hawker" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=michael-hawker" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://nicksnettravels.builttoroam.com"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/1614057?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Nick Randolph"/><br /><sub><b>Nick Randolph</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=nickrandolph" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://taylordevereaux.com"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/880207?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Taylor Devereaux"/><br /><sub><b>Taylor Devereaux</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=taylordevereaux" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://mrlacey.com/"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/189547?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Matt Lacey"/><br /><sub><b>Matt Lacey</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=mrlacey" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/kazo0"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/4793020?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Steve Bilogan"/><br /><sub><b>Steve Bilogan</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=kazo0" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/scottkuhl"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/4465616?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Scott Kuhl"/><br /><sub><b>Scott Kuhl</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=scottkuhl" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://www.13north.ca/"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/7881072?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Tom Walker"/><br /><sub><b>Tom Walker</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=TomWalkerCodes" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://Arieldelossantos.com"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/34275909?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Ariel De Los Santos"/><br /><sub><b>Ariel De Los Santos</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=Arieldelossantos" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/JuliaVigo8"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/11890609?v=4" width="100px;" alt="JuliaVigo8"/><br /><sub><b>JuliaVigo8</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=JuliaVigo8" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/jjcolumb"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/22223689?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Jose Columbie"/><br /><sub><b>Jose Columbie</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=jjcolumb" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Sushi21"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/35455125?v=4" width="100px;" alt="sushi21"/><br /><sub><b>sushi21</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=sushi21" title="Code">💻</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://medium.com/@hminaya/"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/586656?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Hector Minaya"/><br /><sub><b>Hector Minaya</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=hminaya" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://luizbon.com"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/292532?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Luiz Adilson da Silva Bon"/><br /><sub><b>Luiz Adilson da Silva Bon</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=luizbon" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/panwalas"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/39371808?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Swapnil Panwala"/><br /><sub><b>Swapnil Panwala</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=panwalas" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/TopperDEL"><img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/1833242?v=4" width="100px;" alt="TopperDEL"/><br /><sub><b>TopperDEL</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=TopperDEL" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/Parikshit-Hooda"><img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/25405707?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Parikshit Hooda"/><br /><sub><b>Parikshit Hooda</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=Parikshit-Hooda" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/khyativalera"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/47522632?v=4" width="100px;" alt="Khyati Valera"/><br /><sub><b>Khyati Valera</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/commits?author=khyativalera" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

## License 

These workshops are made available under the [Apache License, Version 2][license]. If you use this material to run a workshop, please share where it was used and [feedback by creating a new issue on GitHub][share-feedback]. If you see an opportunity to improve the courseware, please send in a pull-request.

<!-- in-line links -->
[uno-platform]: https://platform.uno/

[license]: ../LICENSE
[share-feedback]: https://github.com/unoplatform/workshops/issues/new?labels=feedback%2C+untriaged&template=feedback.md
