simple-calc/README.md, before:

---
uid: Workshop.SimpleCalc.Overview
---
# Simple Calc Workshop

The Simple Calc workshop is here to help you get started building an app for Desktop, Mobile, and Web with Uno Platform. This workshop is designed to help you get your developer environment set up to start building your first app, while learning about the tools, libraries, and patterns that will help you to build your apps with the Uno Platform.

This app was developed using Uno Platform and draws inspiration from [@adolfomarinucci](https://x.com/adolfomarinucci)'s [Calculator project](https://github.com/adospace/reactorui-maui/tree/main/samples/Calculator).

## What you will learn

- How to prepare your environment to build multi-platform apps with Uno Platform, whether you're using Visual Studio (Windows) or Visual Studio Code (Windows or Mac).
- How to create a new solution using the Uno Platform [dotnet new template](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Uno.Templates) or the [Uno Platform Template Wizard](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=unoplatform.uno-platform-addin-2022).
- How to build your app using XAML or C# Markup.
- How to build your app using Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) or [Model-View-Update-eXtended](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.extensions/doc/Overview/Reactive/overview.html) (MVUX).
- How to customize your app theme and dynamically trigger theme changes at runtime.

This workshop has been set up to provide you with optional content to allow you to tailor the experience to your needs. You can choose to follow the path to create the SimpleCalculator project in one of 4 ways. If you don't know which to pick, start with XAML with MVUX and then if you have time, try one of the other paths.

- XAML with MVUX
- XAML with MVVM
- C# Markup with MVUX
- C# Markup with MVVM

## Prerequisites

- A working understanding of C# / .NET
- .NET 8 latest Preview
- Either:  
  - Visual Studio 2022 17.8 preview (Windows)
  - Visual Studio Code (Windows or Mac)

> [!NOTE]
>  For an improved development experience, we recommend using .NET 8 RC 2 (or later) and VisualStudio 17.8 preview 5 (or later). However, the workshop can still be completed with .NET7 and VisualStudio 17.7.

### Good to have

- A working understanding of XAML
- A working understanding of MVVM

## Next Step

 - [Getting Started](xref:Workshop.SimpleCalc.GettingStarted)

Commit message:

feat: add callout to reference sample apps

simple-calc/README.md, after:

---
uid: Workshop.SimpleCalc.Overview
---
# Simple Calc Workshop

The Simple Calc workshop is here to help you get started building an app for Desktop, Mobile, and Web with Uno Platform. This workshop is designed to help you get your developer environment set up to start building your first app, while learning about the tools, libraries, and patterns that will help you to build your apps with the Uno Platform.

This app was developed using Uno Platform and draws inspiration from [@adolfomarinucci](https://x.com/adolfomarinucci)'s [Calculator project](https://github.com/adospace/reactorui-maui/tree/main/samples/Calculator).

## What you will learn

- How to prepare your environment to build multi-platform apps with Uno Platform, whether you're using Visual Studio (Windows) or Visual Studio Code (Windows or Mac).
- How to create a new solution using the Uno Platform [dotnet new template](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Uno.Templates) or the [Uno Platform Template Wizard](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=unoplatform.uno-platform-addin-2022).
- How to build your app using XAML or C# Markup.
- How to build your app using Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) or [Model-View-Update-eXtended](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/external/uno.extensions/doc/Overview/Reactive/overview.html) (MVUX).
- How to customize your app theme and dynamically trigger theme changes at runtime.

This workshop has been set up to provide you with optional content to allow you to tailor the experience to your needs. You can choose to follow the path to create the SimpleCalculator project in one of 4 ways. If you don't know which to pick, start with XAML with MVUX and then if you have time, try one of the other paths.

- XAML with MVUX
- XAML with MVVM
- C# Markup with MVUX
- C# Markup with MVVM

## Prerequisites

- A working understanding of C# / .NET
- .NET 8 latest Preview
- Either:  
  - Visual Studio 2022 17.8 preview (Windows)
  - Visual Studio Code (Windows or Mac)

> [!NOTE]
>  For an improved development experience, we recommend using .NET 8 RC 2 (or later) and VisualStudio 17.8 preview 5 (or later). However, the workshop can still be completed with .NET7 and VisualStudio 17.7.

### Good to have

- A working understanding of XAML
- A working understanding of MVVM

## Final Application

You can refer to the fully implemented sample available as a reference application in the [Uno.Samples repository](https://aka.platform.uno/simplecalc-sampleapp)

## Next Step

 - [Getting Started](xref:Workshop.SimpleCalc.GettingStarted)
