uno-bootcamp/modules/04-Create-rich-responsive-UIs/README.md, before:

# Create rich responsive UIs

## 📖 Overview

Until recently, all Windows 10 XAML platform controls were tightly-coupled to the version of the OS run by the user. This meant fixing any bugs related to platform controls would require an update to the user's entire OS.

The [WinUI](https://aka.ms/winui) library changes this by decoupling the platform controls from the OS and ships independently and in the open on GitHub. With the upcoming WinUI v3.0, the majority of the platform controls will be open-sourced and available to be updated independent of Windows 10. This also allows your app to take fixes for controls while still running on an older OS version and not requiring the user to update their machine to get a bug fix in a control.

The Uno Platform aggressively fast-follows the Microsoft Windows and Microsoft WinUI roadmap, as Microsoft adds new controls and public APIs they will be added to the Uno Platform either by the team or via community contributions.

## 💡 XAML Overview

This workshop assumes pre-existing knowledge of XAML, if you are unfamilar with the topic then there's a [tons of knowledge available from Microsoft](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/xaml-platform/xaml-overview).

## 💡 XAML with Uno

If you're an existing UWP XAML developer, you should feel right at home. Uno strives to make sure your existing XAML should just work. Just make sure you're developing a responsive application that works at multiple screen resolutions. Then validate periodically that all your features work in the iOS, Android, and WebAssembly heads of your Uno project.

There can be times when certain features aren't yet supported by Uno OR that you want to tailor an experience for a specific platform. In these cases, you can use Conditional XAML to allow you to keep the majority of your application the same, but filter out or change bits and pieces for specific platforms.

```xml
<ResourceDictionary xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml/presentation"
                    xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml"
                    xmlns:local="using:Uno.AzureDevOps.Views.Controls"
                    xmlns:mc="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/markup-compatibility/2006"
                    xmlns:ios="http://uno.ui/ios"
                    xmlns:android="http://uno.ui/android"
                    xmlns:win="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml/presentation"
                    mc:Ignorable="ios android">

    <ios:Style x:Key="NativeDefaultFrame"
               TargetType="Frame">
        <Setter Property="Template">
            <Setter.Value>
                <ControlTemplate TargetType="Frame">
                    <NativeFramePresenter Background="{TemplateBinding Background}" />
                </ControlTemplate>
            </Setter.Value>
        </Setter>
    </ios:Style>

    <android:Style x:Key="NativeDefaultFrame"
                   TargetType="Frame">
        <Setter Property="Template">
            <Setter.Value>
                <ControlTemplate TargetType="Frame">
                    <NativeFramePresenter Background="{TemplateBinding Background}" />
                </ControlTemplate>
            </Setter.Value>
        </Setter>
    </android:Style>

```

There are two code layout techniques that can be used to implement platform-specific code with the Uno Platform:

1. Place platform-specific code in a file which is only included in the desired `platform head`.
2. Use conditionals within a file within the `shared project` to conditionally implement platform-specific code.

In Visual Studio, a `shared project` is just a list of files. Referencing a `shared project` in an ordinary `.csproj` project causes those files to be included in the project. They're treated in exactly the same way as the files inside the project.

The Uno Platform provides you with two techniques to conditionally implement platform-specific code within a shared project:

1. [Platform-specific C# code in Uno][platform-specific-csharp].
1. [Platform-specific XAML markup in Uno][platform-specific-xaml].

## 💡 ValueConverters

XAML allows us to easily bind our data model to our view. However, the type of data value the view is expecting sometimes doesn't match the type of the data in our model.

Rather than having to re-work our model, we can create a helper value converter in order to transform the data coming from the model into a type the view can understand.

To do this we just simply create a class that implements the `IValueConverter` interface.

```csharp
using System;
using TodoApp.Shared.Models;
using Windows.UI.Xaml.Data;

namespace TodoApp.Shared.Converters
{
    public class FromStateItemsRemainingToPluralConverter : IValueConverter
    {
        public object Convert(object value, Type targetType, object parameter, string language)
        {
            if (value is State state)
            {
                var amountRemaining = state.RemainingTodos;
                return amountRemaining == 1 ? $"{amountRemaining} item left" : $"{amountRemaining} items left";
            }

            return null;
        }

        public object ConvertBack(object value, Type targetType, object parameter, string language)
        {
            throw new NotSupportedException();
        }
    }
}
```

In our page or application resources, we need to instantiate our converter so we can access it as a resource from our XAML bindings:

```xml
<converters:FromStateItemsRemainingToPluralConverter x:Key="FromStateItemsRemainingToPluralConverter" />
```

Now, we can use this converter in our binding within our XAML:

```xml
<TextBlock Text="{Binding State, Converter={StaticResource FromStateItemsRemainingToPluralConverter}}"
        Grid.Row="1"
        Padding="0,5,0,0"
        VerticalAlignment="Center" />
```

This will take our `State` variable from our model and pass it into our converter, which will then return some text for our TextBlock's `Text` property to consume.

## 💡 Debugging XAML

Enabling `Show All Files` will show the output from the Uno code generator and UWP XAML code generators.

![Debugging XAML show all files](debugging-xaml-show-all-files.png)

By adding the `FeatureConfiguration.UIElement.AssignDOMXamlName = true;` to your WebAssembly application, you will see the XAML names directly in the DOM by using the browser F12 tools.

![Debugging WASM via F12](debugging-wasm-via-f12.png)

## 🎯 Implement the user interface

You won't need to implement the datastore or model the entities, that has been done for you.

1. [ ] Review [TodoApp.Shared/ViewModels/MainPageViewModel.cs][src-viewmodel]
1. [ ] Implement [TodoApp/TodoApp.Shared/*.xaml][src-xaml]
1. [ ] Implement [TodoApp/TodoApp.Shared/*.xaml.cs][src-xaml-cs]

## 🎯 Use `VisualBoundsPadding` to manage the notch

If you run the app on an iPhoneX, You'll see something like this:

![Problem with the notch](uno-notch-problem.png)

As you can see, the **TODOS** header is placed under the device notch.

To fix this problem, Uno offers you a nice tool called the `VisualBoundsPadding`. The goal of this tool is to add padding to content you don't want to be altered by the notch.

1. Add the namespace declaration `xmlns:toolkit="using:Uno.UI.Toolkit"` to your XAML file
1. Add `toolkit:VisibleBoundsPadding.PaddingMask="Top"` to your _Header_ `<Grid>`
1. Add `toolkit:VisibleBoundsPadding.PaddingMask="Left,Right"` to your _Content_ `<Grid>`

The result will look like this and will follow the requirement of the platform vendor:

![Problem with the notch](uno-notch-fixed.png)

Finally, add a reference to the `Uno.UI` package in the UWP project to provide a blank implementation of the `VisibleBoundsPadding` service. Alternatively, you could use the `not_win` [conditional XAML compilation prefix][platform-specific-xaml] to exclude `VisibleBoundsPadding` from the UWP head.

## 📚 Additional Reading Material

- [VisibleBoundsPadding behavior][docs-visualboundspadding]
- https://medium.com/@unoplatform/talkin-bout-my-generation-how-the-uno-platform-generates-code-part-1-under-the-hood-7664d83c4f90
- https://platform.uno/docs/articles/implemented/windows-ui-xaml-controls-commandbar.html
- https://platform.uno/docs/articles/controls/CommandBar.html

## ⏭️ What's next

In [the next module][next-module] you'll learn about the next philosophical tenant — `Native intercompatibility` and create platform native controls then intermix them with WinUI/UWP XAML.

<!-- in-line links -->
[uno-platform]: https://platform.uno/

[previous-module]: ../03-Let-views-do-views/README.md
[next-module]: ../05-Native-intercompatibility/README.md

[philosophy-of-uno]: https://platform.uno/docs/articles/concepts/overview/philosophy-of-uno.html

[todomvc]: http://todomvc.com/

[src-xaml]: TodoApp/TodoApp.Shared/MainPage.xaml
[src-xaml-cs]: TodoApp/TodoApp.Shared/MainPage.xaml.cs
[src-viewmodel]: TodoApp/TodoApp.Shared/ViewModels/MainPageViewModel.cs


[platform-specific-csharp]: https://platform.uno/docs/articles/platform-specific-csharp.html
[platform-specific-xaml]: https://platform.uno/docs/articles/platform-specific-xaml.html

[docs-visualboundspadding]: https://github.com/unoplatform/uno/blob/master/doc/articles/features/VisibleBoundsPadding.md

Commit message:

Initial draft of using WCT IValueConverters

uno-bootcamp/modules/04-Create-rich-responsive-UIs/README.md, after:

# Create rich responsive UIs

## 📖 Overview

Until recently, all Windows 10 XAML platform controls were tightly-coupled to the version of the OS run by the user. This meant fixing any bugs related to platform controls would require an update to the user's entire OS.

The [WinUI](https://aka.ms/winui) library changes this by decoupling the platform controls from the OS and ships independently and in the open on GitHub. With the upcoming WinUI v3.0, the majority of the platform controls will be open-sourced and available to be updated independent of Windows 10. This also allows your app to take fixes for controls while still running on an older OS version and not requiring the user to update their machine to get a bug fix in a control.

The Uno Platform aggressively fast-follows the Microsoft Windows and Microsoft WinUI roadmap, as Microsoft adds new controls and public APIs they will be added to the Uno Platform either by the team or via community contributions.

## 💡 XAML Overview

This workshop assumes pre-existing knowledge of XAML, if you are unfamilar with the topic then there's a [tons of knowledge available from Microsoft](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/xaml-platform/xaml-overview).

## 💡 XAML with Uno

If you're an existing UWP XAML developer, you should feel right at home. Uno strives to make sure your existing XAML should just work. Just make sure you're developing a responsive application that works at multiple screen resolutions. Then validate periodically that all your features work in the iOS, Android, and WebAssembly heads of your Uno project.

There can be times when certain features aren't yet supported by Uno OR that you want to tailor an experience for a specific platform. In these cases, you can use Conditional XAML to allow you to keep the majority of your application the same, but filter out or change bits and pieces for specific platforms.

```xml
<ResourceDictionary xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml/presentation"
                    xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml"
                    xmlns:local="using:Uno.AzureDevOps.Views.Controls"
                    xmlns:mc="http://schemas.openxmlformats.org/markup-compatibility/2006"
                    xmlns:ios="http://uno.ui/ios"
                    xmlns:android="http://uno.ui/android"
                    xmlns:win="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml/presentation"
                    mc:Ignorable="ios android">

    <ios:Style x:Key="NativeDefaultFrame"
               TargetType="Frame">
        <Setter Property="Template">
            <Setter.Value>
                <ControlTemplate TargetType="Frame">
                    <NativeFramePresenter Background="{TemplateBinding Background}" />
                </ControlTemplate>
            </Setter.Value>
        </Setter>
    </ios:Style>

    <android:Style x:Key="NativeDefaultFrame"
                   TargetType="Frame">
        <Setter Property="Template">
            <Setter.Value>
                <ControlTemplate TargetType="Frame">
                    <NativeFramePresenter Background="{TemplateBinding Background}" />
                </ControlTemplate>
            </Setter.Value>
        </Setter>
    </android:Style>

```

There are two code layout techniques that can be used to implement platform-specific code with the Uno Platform:

1. Place platform-specific code in a file which is only included in the desired `platform head`.
2. Use conditionals within a file within the `shared project` to conditionally implement platform-specific code.

In Visual Studio, a `shared project` is just a list of files. Referencing a `shared project` in an ordinary `.csproj` project causes those files to be included in the project. They're treated in exactly the same way as the files inside the project.

The Uno Platform provides you with two techniques to conditionally implement platform-specific code within a shared project:

1. [Platform-specific C# code in Uno][platform-specific-csharp].
1. [Platform-specific XAML markup in Uno][platform-specific-xaml].

## 💡 ValueConverters

XAML allows us to easily bind our data model to our view. However, the type of data value the view is expecting sometimes doesn't match the type of the data in our model.

Rather than having to re-work our model, we can create a helper value converter in order to transform the data coming from the model into a type the view can understand.

To do this we just simply create a class that implements the `IValueConverter` interface.

```csharp
using System;
using TodoApp.Shared.Models;
using Windows.UI.Xaml.Data;

namespace TodoApp.Shared.Converters
{
    public class FromStateItemsRemainingToPluralConverter : IValueConverter
    {
        public object Convert(object value, Type targetType, object parameter, string language)
        {
            if (value is State state)
            {
                var amountRemaining = state.RemainingTodos;
                return amountRemaining == 1 ? $"{amountRemaining} item left" : $"{amountRemaining} items left";
            }

            return null;
        }

        public object ConvertBack(object value, Type targetType, object parameter, string language)
        {
            throw new NotSupportedException();
        }
    }
}
```

In our page or application resources, we need to instantiate our converter so we can access it as a resource from our XAML bindings:

```xml
<converters:FromStateItemsRemainingToPluralConverter x:Key="FromStateItemsRemainingToPluralConverter" />
```

Now, we can use this converter in our binding within our XAML:

```xml
<TextBlock Text="{Binding State, Converter={StaticResource FromStateItemsRemainingToPluralConverter}}"
        Grid.Row="1"
        Padding="0,5,0,0"
        VerticalAlignment="Center" />
```

This will take our `State` variable from our model and pass it into our converter, which will then return some text for our TextBlock's `Text` property to consume.

## 💡 Third-Party Libraries

There are a number of third-party UWP control libraries available which can also work with Uno. Just like the rest of Uno, you can leverage these existing resources and their standard XAML patterns to build your applications.

For this app, we're going to need a few different types of Value Converters to properly bind data to our UI. However, rather than writing these all ourselves, we can leverage work done by the community for more common conversion scenarios. The [Windows Community Toolkit](https://aka.ms/wct) provides a number of converters we can leverage.

All we need to do to leverage this control is add a NuGet reference to `Uno.Microsoft.Toolkit.Uwp.UI` to each of our projects. This is the Uno compatible version of the package _Microsoft.Toolkit.Uwp.UI.Controls_, but it contains the same namespace as the original so you can use the same XAML with Uno that you would any other UWP project that used the toolkit!

To add this package:

1. Right-click on your solution root at the top of your Solution Explorer tree and select `🎁 Manage NuGet Packages for Solution...`.
2. Click on the `Browse` tab and type `Uno.Microsoft.Toolkit.Uwp.UI` into the search box.
3. You should see a result returned on the left you can click on.
4. ☑ Check the box at the top-left of the list of your projects that appeared to the right of the search results. This will select all your project heads to install the package to.
5. Then click the `Install` button.
6. Two dialogs will appear afterwards, one is about a list of dependencies the package needs, and the other is about accepting responsibility for the software license of using open-source software. Accept both of these dialogs to continue.

📝 It's important to be aware of the licenses of code you use within your project as they may impose restrictions or require attribution for using them. Luckily, the Windows Community Toolkit uses the [MIT License](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/) which is permissive as long as you attribute its use by including a copy of the license text in your software.

📝 Remember that because we're using a Shared project for our Uno application, that's why we need to add our NuGet dependency to each individual head of our application.

Once we've added the NuGet reference, we can just include the xmlns namespace in our first tag at the top of our _Styles\Application\Converters.xaml_ to access these controls `xmlns:wct_converters="using:Microsoft.Toolkit.Uwp.UI.Converters"` and add a converter resource:

```
<wct_converters:CollectionVisibilityConverter x:Key="FromAnyToVisibleConverter" />
```

## 💡 Debugging XAML

Enabling `Show All Files` will show the output from the Uno code generator and UWP XAML code generators.

![Debugging XAML show all files](debugging-xaml-show-all-files.png)

By adding the `FeatureConfiguration.UIElement.AssignDOMXamlName = true;` to your WebAssembly application, you will see the XAML names directly in the DOM by using the browser F12 tools.

![Debugging WASM via F12](debugging-wasm-via-f12.png)

## 🎯 Implement the user interface

You won't need to implement the datastore or model the entities, that has been done for you.

1. [ ] Review [TodoApp.Shared/ViewModels/MainPageViewModel.cs][src-viewmodel]
1. [ ] Implement [TodoApp/TodoApp.Shared/*.xaml][src-xaml]
1. [ ] Implement [TodoApp/TodoApp.Shared/*.xaml.cs][src-xaml-cs]

## 🎯 Use `VisualBoundsPadding` to manage the notch

If you run the app on an iPhoneX, You'll see something like this:

![Problem with the notch](uno-notch-problem.png)

As you can see, the **TODOS** header is placed under the device notch.

To fix this problem, Uno offers you a nice tool called the `VisualBoundsPadding`. The goal of this tool is to add padding to content you don't want to be altered by the notch.

1. Add the namespace declaration `xmlns:toolkit="using:Uno.UI.Toolkit"` to your XAML file
1. Add `toolkit:VisibleBoundsPadding.PaddingMask="Top"` to your _Header_ `<Grid>`
1. Add `toolkit:VisibleBoundsPadding.PaddingMask="Left,Right"` to your _Content_ `<Grid>`

The result will look like this and will follow the requirement of the platform vendor:

![Problem with the notch](uno-notch-fixed.png)

Finally, add a reference to the `Uno.UI` package in the UWP project to provide a blank implementation of the `VisibleBoundsPadding` service. Alternatively, you could use the `not_win` [conditional XAML compilation prefix][platform-specific-xaml] to exclude `VisibleBoundsPadding` from the UWP head.

## 📚 Additional Reading Material

- [Windows Community Toolkit Value Converter Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/communitytoolkit/helpers/converters)
- [VisibleBoundsPadding behavior][docs-visualboundspadding]
- https://medium.com/@unoplatform/talkin-bout-my-generation-how-the-uno-platform-generates-code-part-1-under-the-hood-7664d83c4f90
- https://platform.uno/docs/articles/implemented/windows-ui-xaml-controls-commandbar.html
- https://platform.uno/docs/articles/controls/CommandBar.html

## ⏭️ What's next

In [the next module][next-module] you'll learn about the next philosophical tenant — `Native intercompatibility` and create platform native controls then intermix them with WinUI/UWP XAML.

<!-- in-line links -->
[uno-platform]: https://platform.uno/

[previous-module]: ../03-Let-views-do-views/README.md
[next-module]: ../05-Native-intercompatibility/README.md

[philosophy-of-uno]: https://platform.uno/docs/articles/concepts/overview/philosophy-of-uno.html

[todomvc]: http://todomvc.com/

[src-xaml]: TodoApp/TodoApp.Shared/MainPage.xaml
[src-xaml-cs]: TodoApp/TodoApp.Shared/MainPage.xaml.cs
[src-viewmodel]: TodoApp/TodoApp.Shared/ViewModels/MainPageViewModel.cs

[platform-specific-csharp]: https://platform.uno/docs/articles/platform-specific-csharp.html
[platform-specific-xaml]: https://platform.uno/docs/articles/platform-specific-xaml.html

[docs-visualboundspadding]: https://github.com/unoplatform/uno/blob/master/doc/articles/features/VisibleBoundsPadding.md
